now let has taken algorithm that has loping statements inside
the conditional statement and analyse its timecomplexity
Here in this algorithm if given input isn't even number this
sinker statement will be executed. So the time complexity
for this block is order of one
If the given number is odd this loop will be
executed n times. So the time complexity for this
block is order of n. Here, we can notice that
the running time of this algorithm is decided by conditional
statements
So for this algorithm we need to write the best
and worst case time complexities. Here The best case is when
given number is even because for an even number the
algorithm will take only order of one time So the
best case time complexity of this algorithm is order
of one And the worst cases when the given number
is odd because for an odd number the algorithm will take
order of n time
So the worst case time complexity of this algorithm
is order of end So the conclusion is if the
running time of an algorithm is decided by conditional statements
we need to write the time complexity in best and worst cases. Thats it.